---
layout: post
title: My opinion about the difference between data scientists and statisticians!
---

1.	What do you think being a data scientist is about?

  In my opinion, the data scientist is to work with data! Since they are working with a huge data set, they need to have a really powerful coding skill. To combine these two the data scientist is someone who knows the knowledge of managing data and great at coding at the same time. I agree with that "A data scientist is someone better at statistics than any software engineer and better at software than any statistician".


2.	What do you see as the major duties and/or knowledge areas? 

  A data scientist should know how to manage data and let the data set more convenient for people to use. In other words, their major duties are helping people (the statistician or other people who are going to use those data) transfer the huge messy data into something that can be used easily during their works. To do this the data scientist should have basic knowledge of statistics, in this way they can accurately manage data. Also, they should know lots of computer languages, R, SAS, Python...etc. Knowing these languages is the only way to manage the data in this generation.


3.	What differences/similarities do you see between data scientists and statisticians?

  The similarity for data scientists and statisticians is that they are both working with Data. However, data scientists are managing them and statisticians are using them.
  After a year studying in the statistics program, I think statistics is more about the concept and the theory. We do hypothesis testing. Decide whether or not we reject our null hypothesis. We try new methods to find out probability, like bayesian or something. Also, we design an experiment for our research. These are something a statistician will do. However, when we do these jobs, we always need great data set to help us find our answer. So here comes a data scientist.
  The data scientist is also very important.  Sometimes manage those data is the hardest part for a statistician, in my opinion. Therefore, if a data scientist knows all the needs statisticians have, things will be way easier.


4.	How do you view yourself in relation to these two areas?

  For me, if you ask me this question now, I will say that I’m half of a statistician but nothing about the data scientist. This is because I have some basic knowledge of statistics and I have done some projects about statistics. But, I’m not great at coding. I can do some R and some SAS, however, I’m really bad at cleaning the data. Therefore, I choose this class "Data science for statisticians". I hope I can say I am half of a data scientist after this course. This will be very helpful for me in my future job. I wish I can become a statistician who knows data science.

